Corbin Via Week 4.2: Algorithms

Release 0

Assuming your personal elevator robot is standing outside the elevator doors, begin the following sequence of commands:

1. Scan the area around the elevator for a sign that states what the current floor is. Take note of this for future operations.
2. Scan the area around the elevator for up/down buttons, usually marked within a small rectangle on the wall with arrow symbols in small circles or squares. Take note of this location for future operations.
3. Ask the user for the floor number where he/she would like to travel.
	a. If the user has already specified to which floor to travel, determine if the number is higher or lower than the current floor. Store the user's specified floor in memory.
	b. If the user specifies a floor, determine if the number is higher or lower than the current floor. Store the user's specified floor in memory.
	c. If the user specifies the current floor from operation #1, tell the user that he/she is already on that floor.
	d. If the user is unsure, wait a few moments and return to operation #3.
4. Go to the elevator buttons that were located in operation #2.
	a. If the user specified a floor that was higher than the current floor, press the up button.
	b. If the user specified a floor that was lower than the current floor, press the down button.
5. Wait for the elevator doors to open.
	a. If the elevator doors open and there are one or more people in there, wait until all previous elevator users have exited before proceeding.
6. Enter the elevator.
7. Scan all sides of the elevator for a set of buttons, checking first in the area next to the elevator doors.
8. From operation #3, recall the specified floor and scan the set of buttons for a button with a number that matches the specified floor.
9. Press the button once it is located.
10. Wait for doors to close and for elevator to move.
11. Wait for doors to open. When doors open, scan the area of the elevator for a display that will show where the elevator is by floor number.
	a. If there is no display, check for a display outside the elevator that shows where the user is by floor number or listen for another robot who may be telling the user the current floor.
12. Check the new floor number against the floor number that was specified in operation #3.
	a. If the new floor number does not match the specified floor in operation #3, tell the user that he/she should not exit on this floor.
	b. If the new floor number matches the specified floor in operation #3, tell the user that he/she may exit on this floor.
13. Exit the elevator if the condition in #12b is met.
14. Ask the user for new input.

Release 1

This algorithm is for making coffee in the morning, which I might need to reference if I am very tired in the morning.

1. Check the water level in the electric kettle. 
	a. If it is below 2 on the outside plastic window pane, add more water to the kettle.
	b. If it is at or above 2 on the outside plastic window pane, proceed to next step.
2. Turn on kettle.
3. Get aeropress supplies, grinder, coffee, and coffee cup.
4. Use scoop to measure 2 scoops of coffee into grinder.
5. Set grinder to fine grind.
6. Grind coffee.
7. Place paper filter into aeropress.
8. Place funnel on top of aeropress.
9. Put coffee into aeropress tube through funnel.
10. Remove funnel.
11. Place aeropress tube on top of cup.
12. Check electric kettle.
	a. If if is not done with boiling, wait for kettle switch to turn off. This operation will become faster if the kettle is not watched.
	b. If kettle switch has turned off, remove kettle from its base.
13. Pour water into aeropress tube up to level 2.
14. Use stir stick to stir coffee and boiling water for 10 seconds.
15. Remove stir stick and locate coffee tube plunger.
16. Use coffee tube plunger to plunge coffee and water through filter for 20-30 seconds.
17. When finished, remove filter from aeropress tube.
18. Push the coffee tube plunger all the way through the tube to push the coffee grounds out of the tube into the trash.
19. Add hot water from kettle to coffee cup to desired level.
20. Add cream to desired level.
21. Stir coffee and cream.
22. Drink coffee and then repeat steps 1-21, since I always have two cups of coffee in the morning.